# Gender-Paradox
[A recently published paper](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0956797617741719?journalCode=pssa) in the academic journal Psychological Science attracted plenty of attention thanks to some of its surprising conclusions. 
Its main finding - which is referred to as the gender equality paradox - is that countries which promote gender equality tend to have less gender balance in fields such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). In this jupter notebook, I explore the gender equality paradox by examining the data used by the researchers and presents an updated version based on the latest available data. My results are consistent with previous research, in that higher gender-equality is correlated to lower female graduation rates in STEM and vice-versa. I find that enrollment in tertiary education is led by women in 85 of the 112 countries with available data. Out of 79 countries with available data on STEM graduation rates, I find that no country had a higher percentage rate of female STEM graduates compared to male STEM graduates.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The goal of this notebook is **not** to promote gender inequality and I want to emphasize that I have no political agenda. My goal is simply to provide unbiased data for anyone to use. Female's participation rate in STEM fields should not be misstaken for a proxy of a countries success. Equality of opportunity is a human right which should not be confused with equality of outcome.  
